docs/using-jellyseerr/plex/index.md, before:

---
title: Overview
description: Learn about Jellyseerr's Plex integration features
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Plex Features Overview

Jellyseerr offers several features that integrate with your Plex media server. This section will help you understand and configure these features.

## Available Features

- [Watchlist Auto Request](./plex/watchlist-auto-request) - Automatically request media from your Plex Watchlist
- More features coming soon!

## Prerequisites

:::info
To use any Plex integration features, you must have logged into Jellyseerr at least once with your Plex account.
:::

To use Plex integration features, you need:

- A Plex account
- Your Plex account connected to Jellyseerr
- You must have logged into Jellyseerr at least once
- Appropriate permissions (if required by the feature)

## Getting Started

1. **Connect Your Plex Account**
   - Go to Settings > Media Server
   - Select Plex as your media server
   - Follow the connection process (see [Mediaserver Settings](/using-jellyseerr/settings/mediaserver?media-server-type=plex))
   - Log in to Jellyseerr at least once with your Plex account

2. **Check Your Permissions**
   - Some features require specific permissions
   - Contact your administrator if you need access to certain features

3. **Enable Features**
   - Each feature has its own configuration
   - Follow the specific feature's guide to enable it

Commit message:

docs(plex): clarify watchlist auto-request permission requirements

docs/using-jellyseerr/plex/index.md, after:

---
title: Overview
description: Learn about Jellyseerr's Plex integration features
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Plex Features Overview

Jellyseerr provides integration features that connect with your Plex media server to automate media management tasks.

## Available Features

- [Watchlist Auto Request](./plex/watchlist-auto-request) - Automatically request media from your Plex Watchlist
- More features coming soon!

## Prerequisites

:::info Authentication Required
To use any Plex integration features, you must have logged into Jellyseerr at least once with your Plex account.
:::

**Requirements:**
- Plex account with access to the configured Plex server
- Jellyseerr configured with Plex as the media server
- User authentication via Plex login
- Appropriate user permissions for specific features

## Getting Started

1. Authenticate at least once using your Plex credentials
2. Verify you have the necessary permissions for desired features
3. Follow individual feature guides for setup instructions

:::note Server Configuration
Plex server configuration is handled by your administrator. If you cannot log in with your Plex account, contact your administrator to verify the server setup.
:::
